in the south japan's mountainous valleys
a terrorist into rice paddies I'm
looking for a creature that once haunted
crystal streams but now makes its home
in these irrigation ditches the giant
salamander this cold-blooded Leviathan
is protected as a national treasure so
I'm meeting up with a licensed expert
mr. Kizashi to make sure we do things
right gonna meet you up on here to our I
think about five here in chiju her
village
they've set specially made burrows into
the channel walls to give sanctuary to
these extraordinary amphibians there was
a very very large giant salamander in
here we're talking but that's it yeah
it's a bit of a genetic right around
about one meter long if you put the
stick in there it would have nabbed it
but it's not doing it right now so he's
getting its moved on and all that to say
well how's all of that under the wall at
all so that there
it's adaptoid it got an earful my
husband getting on the phone with him
ah right okay so a couple of weeks ago
there was actually some some awesome
baby
salamanders around here you think city
might have moved around being the stream
around here so as we're wandering down
we'll keep a lookout we might actually
see some youngsters
hi hey unusually the baby salamanders
are cared for by their dad also known as
the den master but once they leave the
safety of the Burrow they're on their
own
Bocconi tax on tobacco tomatotopia
kuwasa
what Emma Jean colonography how about
that it's just incredible we put an
artificial burrow down here and there is
sat right in the opening a pretty
good-sized giant salamander there's
Harlan
Sugoi go ahead yeah and on it Connor
Connor or Sancho vah vah Nagar I none
say what do you think I'm gonna do I
gotta go to say wow so it's possible
this giant salamander that we're seeing
in here could be 40 to 50 years old
the salamander is a real generalist that
will eat just about anything it can fit
into its enormous mouth so if we can
find a little piece of chicken or
something maybe we can get this animal
out of the Burrow okay normally we
wouldn't be allowed to do this this
being a protected animal and a national
treasure here in Japan and the only
people that are allowed to actually have
any kind of contact with them people
like mr. who's Ashley san who actually
works froglet for the hiroshima zoo it's
coming it's coming
how about that
you better pick it out look at
I'm just gonna put my hand over the top
of it so you can get a sense why how
live this animal is look at that you can
see that huge cavernous more of its
mouth clenching onto the sausage like
it's definitely not gonna let go these
amphibians have been around since before
the dinosaurs but I've obviously
developed a taste for fast food